LIST OF USER-FACING DOCUMENTATION FROM THIS REPOSITORY

The following represents the externally-facing publications produced 
for ESDS to support its namesake product, including any tips for
maintaining the content.

NOTE: There may be user-facing publications from ESDS outside this list,
      but this list is focused on technical documentation maintained from
      this repository.
      
NOTE: Information and instructions for generating these documents can be
      found in the "README" file.

The ESDS delivery checklist for user-facing docs is as follows:
[  ] User Release Notes
[  ] Developer Documentation
[  ] Administrator Documentation
[  ] Ingestion Documentation
[  ] Runbook
[  ] Environment Specification

-- User Release Notes ---------------------------------------------------
FORMAT:    Single HTML page
AUDIENCE:  All those who may be interested in the unique aspects of each 
           ESDS release or the changes that have occurred between releases

Release notes are collaboratively developed between releases at a wiki 
page, then converted to HTML for delivery. The HTML is maintained in the 
datastore_docs repository and delivered at the same time as the code at
the end of the release cycle.

Check with the release manager for the current process behind assembling 
and delivering this. Be sure to follow the template for the release notes, 
and keep that template updated as needed, too.

-- Developer Documentation ----------------------------------------------
FORMAT:    Hierarchy of HTML documents and supporting files (CSS, images, etc.)
AUDIENCE:  Software engineers developing applications using the ESDS REST API

Developer documentation is created and maintained by writers, with content 
coming from both auto-generated files from the ESDS code and from 
DocBook XML source maintained in the datastore_docs repository. Note that
several modules used to produce this documentation affect multiple 
documents/audiences and are included in other documentation.

IMPORTANT! Any XML source files that start with "auto-" should NOT be edited 
manually; these are the output from processing the auto-generated files into 
DocBook XML source. Changes to this content require a change to something in
the code repository ("datastore") that will be picked up when the script is
run to generate document artifacts for user documentation.

INCLUDES:
-- What it means to have the application developer user role in ESDS
-- How to set up a sandbox development environment
-- How to download and use the SDKs
-- The global parameters and other ESDS-specific information needed for
   using the REST API
-- Data model reference (similar to Ed-Fi's schema documentation)
-- REST API reference, including each endpoint and associated methods
-- ESDS security rules

-- Administrator Documentation ------------------------------------------
FORMAT:    Single-volume PDF
AUDIENCE:  Administrators responsible for managing ESDS day-to-day for 
           a given education organization

The administrator documentation is created and maintained by writers using
DocBook XML source maintained in the datastore_docs repository. Note that
several modules used to produce this documentation affect multiple 
documents/audiences and are included in other documentation.

Includes:
-- Integrating an education organization's identity services with ESDS
-- Managing user rights and roles
-- Managing ESDS user accounts (such as ingestion users)
-- Preparing and ingesting data in the ESDS data store
-- ESDS security rules

-- Runbook -------------------------------------------------------------
FORMAT:    Single-volume PDF
AUDIENCE:  Operators responsible for deploying, configuring, and maintaining 
           the software associated with ESDS

The runbook is created and maintained by writers using DocBook XML source 
maintained in the datastore_docs repository. Note that a couple of the
modules used to produce this documentation affect multiple 
documents/audiences and are included in other documentation.

Includes:
-- Planning for a new ESDS deployment
-- Installing and configuring each ESDS component
-- Troubleshooting ESDS software and configuration

-- Ingestion Documentation ---------------------------------------------
FORMAT:    Single-volume PDF
AUDIENCE:  Individuals responsible for preparing data for bulk ingestion to
           the ESDS data store, either for the first time or as part of
           regularly scheduled updates

The ingestion documentation is created and maintained by writers using 
DocBook XML source maintained in the datastore_docs repository.

Includes:
-- How the ingestion process works
-- How to prepare data for ingestion, including file formats
-- How to troubleshoot ingestion based on log messages
-- References for the ingestion schema, log files, error messages, and 
   entity mappings

-- Dashboard Customization Documentation -------------------------------
FORMAT:    Single-volume PDF
AUDIENCE:  Administrators for ESDS who need to customize the ESDS 
           Dashboard for the needs of an education organization

The dashboard customization documentation is created and maintained by 
writers using DocBook XML source maintained in the datastore_docs repository.
A sample JSON file supports the final deliverable and should be delivered
with the document. That sample file is stored in the same directory with 
the main dashboard XML file in datastore_docs.

Includes:
-- How the dashboard is organized, and the terminology used to describe it
-- How JSON can be used to customize each part of the dashboard
-- Sample JSON file to experiment with and use as a reference

-- Environment Specification -------------------------------------------
FORMAT:    Word document (DOCX)
AUDIENCE:  Operators responsible for deploying, configuring, and maintaining 
           the software associated with ESDS, and who need to update an
           existing deployment to the current release

The environment specification is created by the engineering teams
and release manager, then copy edited and migrated to a Word template 
by writers. Release managers start this process by creating a wiki
page to stage the environment specification throught a release cycle.
Engineers add content throughout that cycle, and writers edit and format
the content before delivering the document. Check with the release manager
for the link to the environment specification wiki page for the current
release cycle.

Includes:
-- Allocating resources needed to deploy ESDS
-- Establishing an IT environment for ESDS

-- Technical Specification ---------------------------------------------
FORMAT:    Ordered series of wiki pages
AUDIENCE:  Potential customers evaluating ESDS from a technical 
           standpoint or technical experts seeking to understand how 
           ESDS is designed and how each ESDS component works

This was created as part of a contractual agreement with ESDS, though
the final product was not delivered beyond its staging point in "thesli"
wiki:
https://thesli.onconfluence.com/display/sli/Technical+Specification

Originally, engineers were asked to write content, and writers provided 
editing, enhancing, and organization. Engineers have not maintained that 
content over time, though, and the future of this document is uncertain.

Includes:
-- The design and architecture of ESDS
-- The major subsystems within ESDS and the components that make up those subsystems
-- The data flow, protocols, and security across all interconnected components
-- The technical details about how each process and component works in ESDS

-- XML Source Files (OLD) ----------------------------------------------
Before the "datastore_docs" repository was directly accessible by ESDS,
release submission included assembling the XML source files used to produce
several publications. The script used to assemble this is still in the
scripts directory: "gather_source_files.sh".
ESDS
